HCM 608
1307, Tuesday next after the Feast of St. Nicholas [December 12].
1. John son of Roger de Bruneshope de Hereford'; 2. Dominus Nicholas de Reygate, clerk.
GRANT of lands and tenements which descended to the grantor as heritage from the free tenement formerly belonging to Richard de Braumford' his grandfather in the vill of Werham with a third part of lands and tenements which Alice, formerly wife of the said Richard, held as dowry in the same vill, viz., a sixth part of a messuage and ten acres of land. Of the lands and tenements in which grantor is now seized, two acres of nine selions lie in the field called Hathyotiscroft between the land of John de la Berne and the land of John de Kemesynge, and extend from the land of Hugh Troue as far as the land which the aforesaid Alice holds in dowry, three acres lie in the same field between the lands of John de Teyntone on both sides and extend from the highway which leads towards Werham to the land of Ralph de Byritone, half an acre lies in the same field between the land of John de Treyntone and the land of John de Kemesynge and extends from the said highway as far as the land of Ralph de Byrytone, one head acre lies in a field called la Reye near the hedge of the lord treasurer of Hereford and extends from the pasture called Werhameshelde as far as the water of Waye, one acre lies in the same field between the lands of Geoffrey de la Hulle and John de la Hulle and extends from the said head acre to the land of the aforesaid Geoffrey, two acres lie in the upper field between the lands of the said Geoffrey and John and extend from the land of John de Kemesynge as far as the land of the aforesaid John de la Hulle, one head acre lies near the church lane leading towards Werham and extends from the hay called Woluarchysgreue(?) as far as the land which the aforesaid Alice holds in dowry, one acre lies between the lands of John de la Hulle and Geoffrey de la Hulle and extends from the aforesaid hay as far as the land of the aforesaid John de la Hulle, one acre lies between the lands of the aforesaid John and Geoffrey and extends from the highway which leads towards Breyntone as far as the grantor's lands, one acre lies between the land of the aforesaid John de la Hulle and the land which the aforesaid Alice holds in dowry and extends from the land of the said Geoffrey as far as the land of John de Kemesynge, one acre lies in the same field between the lands of the aforesaid John and Geoffrey and extends at both ends above grantor's land, and a third part of an acre lies in the field called Salhwelhulle. Given at Hereford.
Witnesses: John de la Felde, bailiff of the bishop of Hereford, John de la Barewe, John de Seuenak', John de la Berne, John de Kemesinge, Hugh Iues, Hugh le Shipward.
Latin. Seal.