RBLR 4601
1346.4.1
Commission to the prior of Rochester, Thomas de Hicch, parson
of the church of Retherfeld, Alan de Boys and John Baret, reciting
that owing to the intolerable expenses incurred by the king in the
past through continuous war for the defence of the Holy Church
and the realm, the treasury is so exhausted that the king cannot
adequately defend the church of England or the possessions of himself
and of those who receive the profits and emoluments of the realm,
without the help of the latter, wherefore by advice of the council,
under urgent and unavoidable necessity for the defence of the church
and realm, the king has ordained that all aliens beneficed in the realm,
to wit, those who were never and are not resident in such benefices,
but live abroad, come to the king's aid with the value of their benefices 
for the present year to be specified below, and that other aliens so
beneficed and resident give adequate help, by way of loan, and that
sufficient security be made to them for as much as shall be so received
from them ; whereupon the proctors of cardinals and other beneficed
aliens dwelling out of the realm were summoned before the king and
council, and the king's necessity and imminent perils set forth to them,
and they were asked if in the name of their lords they would retain in their
own hands the said benefices for the greater safety thereof and cause
answer to be made to the king for the farm thereof, as if they were
actually demised to farmers, for the present year, from St. Peter’s
Chains last, by way of loan ; and on their refusal after much treaty
the king prohibited them, on pain of forfeiture of all which they could
forfeit, from taking out of the realm any revenue from the fruits
of the said benefices in gold or silver or otherwise secretly or openly,
ordering them further to cause to be brought to a suitable place to
be appointed by the king all money from the fruits of the said benefices
which they now had since the said feast and would receive hereafter
until the end of the year, and to be there delivered to the king's use
by way of loan, receiving security from the king touching the money
so to be delivered there ; to which the proctors precisely replied that
they would neither answer for the value of such fruits nor pay such
farms ; and further reciting that the king cannot further postpone
provision for his necessity by unwonted means, and aid for himself
for the safety of the realm as well as it can be done : and appointing
the said commissioners to enter all benefices of non-resident beneficed
aliens, as well cardinals as others, in the dioceses of Canterbury and
Rochester, which have not yet been taken into the king's hand, and
to take into the king's hand all fruits and provents thereof, and to
sell or demise the same at farm as profitably as possible, the said
John Baret to receive the money arising therefrom by view and testimony 
of the others, and to answer for the same at the king's order,
after deducting the charges necessarily incumbent on the benefices ;
the said John only to render account, the others being wholly discharged
therefrom. By K. & C.

The like to the following :—
The prior of St. Bartholomew, Smythefeld, London, Master
John Barnet and John Pyel, in the diocese of London, the said
John Piel to be charged therewith.
The abbot of Battle, John de Dunstaple, canon of Chichester,
Alan de Boys and John Baret, in the diocese of Chichester,
the said John Baret to be charged therewith.
The abbot of Hyde by Winchester, William de Langele, parson
of the church of Ryngwode, Alan de Boys and John Baret,
in the diocese of Winchester, the said John Baret to be charged
therewith.
The abbot of Malmesbury, Master John de Kyrkeby, archdeacon
of Dorset, Adam de Derleton and John With, in the diocese
of Salisbury, the said John Wyth to be charged therewith.
The abbot of Glastonbury, Walter de London, dean of Wells,
Adam de Derleton and John With, in the diocese of Bath and
Wells, the said John to be charged therewith.
The dean of Exeter, Master Robert Hereward, archdeacon of
Taunton, Adam de Derleton and John With, in the diocese
of Exeter, the said John to be charged therewith.
The prior of Worcester, William de Somervyll of Aston Somervyll,
John de Swanlond and Ralph de Dersthull, in the diocese of
Worcester, the said John to be charged therewith.
Master Stephen de Ledebury, dean of Hereford, Roger de
Braynton, John de Swanlond and Ralph de Dersthull, in the
diocese of Hereford, the said John to be charged therewith.
The abbot of Burton upon Trent, Thomas de Clopton, canon of
Lichfield, John de Swanlond and Ralph de Dersthull, in the
diocese of Coventry and Lichfield, the said John to be charged
therewith.

The abbot of Leicester, Edmund de Bereford, Richard de Holdernesse 
and John de Fyncham, in the diocese of Lincoln, the said John to be 
charged therewith.
The prior of Ely, Edmund de Lenne and Henry Wyth, in the
diocese of Ely, the said Henry to be charged therewith.
The prior of Norwich, Master John de Fenton, archdeacon of
Sudbury, Edmund de Lenne and Henry Wyth, in the diocese
of Norwich, the said Henry to be charged therewith.
The abbot of St. Mary's, York, Thomas de Brayton, John de
Wodehous and John atte Fenne, in the diocese of York, the
said John atte Fenne to be charged therewith.
The prior of Durham, Thomas de Brayton and John atte Fenne,
in the diocese of Durham, the said John to be charged therewith.
Vacated because surrendered and nothing was done thereon by virtue
of the commissions here enrolled, because it was otherwise ordained
touching the payment of the value of such benefices, as is contained on
the Close Roll of this year.
