No* 1813-em 
1282, 2 Id. May (ilay 14)
NETURN of the official of the archdeacon of ells to
the mandate of the prior of ^orspring' in the diocese of
Bath, judge delegated by the Pope and commissary also of
his cc-judge the prior of Malmesbur' in the diocese of
Salisbury. The mandate, which is addressed to the
official of the archdeacon of Wells and the dean of
Axe Bragg1, is quoted in full, an follows?- The said
official and dean are ordered to cite map;i3ter Thomas
called Stede, clerk, who calls himself the rector of the
church of Burnham in tho diocese of Bath, to appear
before the prior of orspring* in the conventual church
of iMlmesbury on the next legal day after the feast of
St. Augustine the Bishop to answer the abbot and convent
of Gloucester and to receive the dictates of justice. If
the said Thomas cannot be found, the citation is to be
placed in the church of Burnham and in the buildings of
the said church. The liboll i of the said abbot and
convent are to be delivered to the said Thomas or his
proctor or placed in the church of Burnham, so that he may
know the charges made against him. The proctor of the
abbot and convent of St. Peter*s, Gloucester, asserts that
his masters, as patrons of the church of Burnham, were
accustomed to draw an annual pension of ten pounds therefrom. The said Thomas has withheld the said pension for
three and a half years causing a loss of thirty-five pounds
to the abbot and convent of Gloucester. The said proctor
therefore demands that the said pension be restored to
his masters, and that the arrears be fully paid to them.
The second libel states that the said naglster Thomas called
Stede had secured his institution to the benefice of
Burnham by the bishop of Bath as diocesan although he had
not been £^resented by the abbot and convent of Gloucester
who were patrons of that church. Wherefore the proctor
requests that the said magister.Thomas be removed from his
possession of the said church by the judges delegated by
the Pope. The mandate is given at or spring' and dated
11 Kal. April, 1281/2.
Bat in.