HCM 2305
1303, April 1.
. 
 1. Payn Ge Turberuilla, lord of Coytif, son and heir of Richard de Turberuiile;
 2- Church of St. Michael of Ewenny, and the prior and monks serving God there and their successors.
 GRANT, CONFIRMATION, and QUITCLAIM, for the health of the souls of himself, Wenchlyane his wife, and all his ancestors and successors, in pure and perpetusl alms for ever of all lands, tenements and possessions which his ancestors gave them, namely the whole land of Carneldon' which they had of the gift of Simon de Terburuilla, forty acres of land next the dwelling house of Godric the fuller (£fwle) which they had of the gift of the same Simon, twenty-four acres of arable land from the bridge of the water of Alenn on the east side of the way which leads from the said bridge towards la wyke, which they had of the gift of Gilbert de Turberuilla, brother of the aforesaid Simon, twenty-four acres of land at wyke of the gift of the same Gilbert, twenty-four acres of arable land with ® small mesdow next the river of Ewenny near the lend of Relph the knight (gibes) eight ecres of land on the west side of the way whic Jeads from the ford of Ewenny to the old vill which they had of the gift of the said Gilbert, the whole of the pasture moor Bead page which was given in exchange for the land of Nicholas Tyget with sll the addition which they had of the gift of Payn de Turberuilla, as is contained in the charter of the said Payn, all that land with appurtenances which lies within a certain ditch called Monekedonne which they had of the gift of Gilbert son of Gilbert de Turberuilla. He also pee to the seid prior and monks that they may fish freely
 the water of Ewenny through his whole lordship where they presse without hindrance by him or his heirs for ever except in the stenks of his mills because his demesne lands adjoin the stanks on both sides. Grant also and confirmation to the prior snd monks aforesaid and their successors of the charter of Gilbert brother of Simon de Turberuilla md the confirmation of Gilbert son of Payn de Turberuilla in which it is contained thst the said prior snd monks shell have a sumpter horse to go for fire wood in their woods twice daily in winter and three times daily in sumer. And so that it mey be more clear in what wise end when and in which woods they ought to gather fire wood, the said Payn grants to the monks that they shall have the said sumpter horse to gather fire wood for fuel in his woods of La Pugge snd of Penkoyt, namely twice daily fromthe feast of St. Michael to the feast of Ste Dunstan the bishop, excepting oak, ash end trees bearing crab apples (arborkbus none silvestria portgnthins) and deily from the feast of St. Dunsten to e feost of Ste Michael three times in his woods of Glynogor and Alhterewe, the loading to be done quarterly in the ssid woods by view of his constable of Coytif and his foresters at least once a year. If it should happen that they do not gather fire wood each day continuously as above said, they shell be allowed to make up arrears at their will otherwise with wains (plaustris) and carts if they wish to gather,without
 Ts ————— ann hindranee of him or his heirs, together with branches lopped off fallen trees beyond the reckoning of the sumpter horse measure. And if it should happen that manifest damage is done to him or his heirs by the prior's men in his ssid woods, as soon as the damage affects the grantor they (the monks) shall set it right according to the quantity of the trespass by the judgment of two or four lawful men, of whom two shall be chosen by him from the prior's men end two shall be chosen by the prior from his men. if the prior and the aonks have ny other lands, tenements or possessions of his fee of whi speciel mention is not made in ee confirmation he grants that the ssme snell be held as their right.
 Witnesses: John le Noreys, John le botyler, John de wyntonia, Robert de Cantelupo, Richerd Syward, Alsen de Hodenet, Nenry de Landefey. Given at Coytif.
 Latin.
 (See National Library of Wales Journal, 1944 Sumer, ppel32-3).