HCM 2089-em1
1330, July 1.
. 
 INSPEXIMUS AND CONFIRMATION by Stephen de Ledebury, dean ef the church of St. Ethelbert of Hereford, sand the chapter of the same of the following charterss (1) Grant from Thomas, bishop of Hereford, by consent of Stephen, dean, and the chapter of Hereford, to we Welter de la Bache, perpetusl vicar in the church of Hereford, who had received @ royal licence for the alienation in mortmain (see Salendar of Patent Rolls. 1327-1330, p.444), of a licence to give and assign two messuages, one cerucate of land six acres of meadow, two acres of pasture end a rent of sixteen shillings and six pence in Kentissheborcote and Netherschelwyk' held of the bishop and one messuage in Hereford held of the dean and chapter docu ite to two chaplains to celebrate divine service dsily for his soul and the souls of his parents, oncestors and others in the chapel of St. Katherine near the bishop's palace in Hereford, and to present the two cheplains to the said chentry during his (Walter's) lifetime, and thereafter the chaplains and their successors to be presented by the dean and chapter; the chaplains to do suit of court and tender all rents, ete., due to the bishop and the dean and chapter in respect of the ssid messuages snd lands.
 witnesses: vo Stephen de Ledebury, dean, Richard Haueringe, precentor, Thomas de Chaundos, archdeacon, Thomas de Orleton, chencellor, Henry de Shorne, Richard de Vernoun', gominus Welter Kerles, canons, dominus Thomas de "Gayton’, knight, Thomas de la Barre, and Robert de Hompton. Dated at Rosy 6 June 1330. (2) Grant from Walter de la Bache, by the licences specified in (1), to ek John de Aka and John called le Peer de Bellymare, priests, who shall celebrate divine service as described in (1), of two messuages, etce, in Kentyssheborcote and Nethereschelwyk' held of the bishop and one messuage in the city of Hereford situat between the tenement of the dean and chapter e tenement of Richard Herui and extending from the ae as far as the tenement formerly of Phillip le Walseche, which messuage is meld 42 Suite of the dean snd chapter; the chaplains to do s of court and render all services pertaining to the properties to the bishop and the dean and chapter. Grentor mekes the following ordinetions: that the chaplains and their successors shell be presented by him to the dean end chapter whilst he is alive and then admitted to the chantries by the dean and aor after his death the dean and chapter shell have the right to fill any vacancy in the chantries; on admission the chaplains shall take oath to celebrate the services in person as far ca peer and when they are prevented from doing so they sh provide suitable chaplains to perform the chantry services aforesaid; the chaplains shall be present in ag ong daily at matins and at all other canonicsl hours with the other echeplsins of the said chapel; however, the grontor does not intend to burden them to such extent that they cannot arrange and prepare their usual business when necessary for the purpose of tilling and harvesting; they shall also be visited and corrected by the dean and chapter as the other chaplains of the said chapel; they and their successors shall celebrate divine services daily for the grantor whilst he is alive and after his death they shall do so for the dead, Lihue for his soul specially and by name, and for the souls o his parents and benefactors, the aforesaid bishop and his parents and ancestors, and the dean snd choepter and all the faithful desd, except on such days as the mass of the Virgin Mary is said and Sundays and feast days when a collect shall be specially said for him.
 witnesses: EL Stephen de Ledebury, dean, Richard de ees? precentor, Thomas de Chaundos, archdeacon, Thomas de Horleton, chancellor, Henry de Shorne, Richard de Vernoun', Walter Karles, John de la Felde, william de876."
". 
 wyk', penitentiary, Adam Carbonel, Roger de Breynton',
 william de Fowehope, and John de Ew, canons, Thomas de Gayton,
 knight, Thomas de Barre, and Robert de Hompton'! Thomas
 Tope, and Walter de Hompton', bailiffs of the king in
 Hereford, Richard de Maurdyn, John de Bradefelde, Willian
 le Brut, William le Stede, John le Clerk' de Holemare,
 Henry de Underwode. Dated st Hereford, 6 June 1330.
 Witnesses to the confirmstions Stephen de raanben's dean, Richard the precentor, Thomas the archdescon, Thomas the chencellor, Henry de Shorne, Richard de Vernoun', John de la Felde, Adem Cerbonel, wiliiem the penitenticry,
 Walter Karles, Roger de Breynton', William de Fowehope, and
 John de Ew, canons, Robert de wee Thomas Tope and
 Walter de omptont bailiffs of the king in Hereford, Richard
 Monyword, william be Clehungre, Thomas Hamund, and simon le
 Bruyn, citizens of Hereford, ‘Dated at Hereford in the
 chapter.
 Latin. Imperfect seal."