HCM 1373
Lgirea 1322-1324.
. 
 A SERIES OF EIGHT DOCUMENTS eenenrneng the rising of Roger de Mortuomar' ogainst King Edward II during the months of November and December 1321 and Jsnuery 1321/22, and the part taken by Adam de Orleton, bishop of Hereford, in the rising.
 Ae QUOTATIONS from Gregory Mauricius Imperator concerning the function of the priesthood, and its complete Tn from judgment by men; and from Constantine's Ecclesiastical History ,Book X on the same subjects.
 B. FURTHER COMMENTS on the same subjects.
 C. EXTRACTS from ecclesiastical canons on the same subjects.
 dD. FURTHER COMMENTS on the same subjects.
 E. DEPOSITIONS of witnesses under oath, to the effect thet Roger de Mortuomar' had levied an army of foot and horse troops against the king. when they camped for the night in and near Bromyard, they leid hands on articles of property belonging to John le Mazun de Stanford and John le Schepherd' de Brontetres and meny others in that neighbourhood; and at Ledebur', they seized property belonging to Roger Forthrith; ond the like happened to many persons in the county of Hereford. Adam, the bishop of Hereford, supported the said Roger, and sent to him reinforcements of Ais own men, namely, Howel le Wsleys de Went, William de Schobbedon', Richard de thabbenor', John oe Tristram the bishop's marshal, Richard son of Gilbert Talboth, end Gilbert his brother, Gilbert Athenaseh' » and Thi omas} son of ThLomas) de Holford' (in F. Folford').
 F. As for E, with the addition of a footnote to the effect that James de Henl', canon of the church of Hereford, had sent a certain Thomas de le Wall', his groom, with the aforesaid armed men,
 G. FURTHER STATEMENT concerning the rising of Roger de Mortuomar' and the robberies committed by his army. Adem, bishop of Hereford, was in sympsthy with the rising, but not with the robberies committed. The names of the armed men alleged to have been sent by the bishop are again given, but it is stated thet they supported Roger as a result of "his menaces and for other reasons, and not by order of the bishop.
 He As for G.
 Latin snd French."