HCM 1443
[?1306], July 8.
LETTER of H. de Shorn', archdeacon of Hereford, to J., dean, and the chapter of Hereford, stating that on the Monday next before the feast of the blessed John the Baptist, he gave to the papal comissloners appointed to investigate the canonisation of dominus Thome de Cantulupo, formerly bishop of Hereford, the rubrics (rubricellae) on the subject of the bishop's life, reputation, and character, the miracles attributed to him, and the alleged article of excommunication. The delay in the delivery of the rubric can not be blamed on him. On the same day he delivered to them six volumes copied from the original processes. The commissioners’ auditors and notaries are demanding the unfinished payment. They demand six hundred florins for the copying of the rubrics, of which the archdeacon has paid one hundred and twenty-five, and there remains to be paid in addition to the sums previously paid by magister Thomas de Gynes and now by the said Henry de Schorn' two hundred and thirty florins. The three notaries allege that seven hundred folios have been transcribed in the first and second volumes, and each of them demands for each folio three turones albi making six thousand three hundred turones and in florins five hundred and twenty-five, of which the archdeacon has paid twenty-five florins. He further maintains that many individual payments have been made to the notaries by magister Adam de Orl'ton', his proctor, and calls to witness letters to this effect from the proctor to magister Thomas de Gynes; these payments are of sixty florins and one hundred and seventy florins. The notaries deny that such additional payments have been made. Therefore the said proctor must give him details of the payments made by him; otherwise the chapter of Hereford will suffer a loss of the same. Dominus Portuens' and dominus Guillelmus de Bergamo, cardinals, commissioners for the dean end chapter of Hereford, have promised to press forward the canonisation of Thomas de Cantulupo without delay. Dominus Thomas, cardinal of England will be staying apud malasanu' by special papal mandate, and he will take the rubrics and the original process with him and study them fully. He wishes the archdeacon to keep him fully informed the progress of the cardinal commissioners at Rome. Magister Thomas de Gynes, clerk, is praised for his diligent application in the suit for canonisation. Given at Avignon. Latin. Document torn, especially at the folds.