HCM 517
2s Sunday next after the Feast of St.
echael the Arehangel LOctober 3). 1. Nicholas Presebon de tereford', fisherman; 2. Hugh Thrum de Abouetheine,
 RELEASE of one secre of land in Wydemarsh'more lying in the field called Shitaresdichesfeld' between the land formerly belonging to Thomas de la Barre and the land of William le Knyt' ond extending from the lsnd formerly of the aforesaid Thomas de la Barre as far as the land of Williem Ballard. Given st wydemersh'more.
 Witnesses: William de fenreth', qin William Rogeres, chaplain, Williem le Kyng', William le Seroun, william de Welynton', Robert Chark', walter the clerk.
 Latin.’ Dractured seal.
 Wo. 1378. igirca 1345).
 MEMORANDUM relating to a claim brought by mogee de Breynton', canon of the church of Hereford, against Thomas trillek end Walter Carles, executors of the will of Adam, late bishop of winchester. The said Roger de Breynton', executor of the will of Richard de Swynesfeld', formerly bishop of Hereford, stated that the said Thomas Trillek and Walter Carles together with John, bishop of Hereford, Roger de Breynton’ himself, John de Usk*, and Nicholas de Lacrwent, coexecutors with them of the will of the late bishop of Winchester, owed to him a sum of five hundred pounds which bons unjustly withheld.
 Roger de Ereynton' further maintained that the said bishop, in the name of Adem, then bishop of Hereford, had bound himself in writing at “are on the twenty-seventh day of Mareh in the year 1310 in the sum of one hundred pounds to Roger himself, and to Richard de Mamenasche, Robert de Ikelesham, snd John de la Ffelde, canons of Hereford. ‘the said bishop Adam on the first day of February in the year 1319/20 at Shenyngfeld' had again bound himself in writing to the seme persons in the sum cf four hundred pounds, to be paid at specified terms. The said oe Adam had failed to discharge these obligations during his lifetimes as a result of the delay, the said Roger de Breynton’ had incurred a loss of a thousand pound se He produced the two documents to which he had referred.
 |935.