RBLR 2502
1325.9.5
Sept. 5. Dover. 
Protection as above for Walter bishop of Exeter, going with the king's son, Edward, earl of Chester. The said bishop has letters nominating Ralph Speke and John de Padyngton as his attorneys. Protection as above, for the following, going with the said bishop :— Roger de Breynton, parson of the church of Aka. Gilbert de Keleshull, parson of the church of White Rothing. Roger de Breynton, parson of the church of Aka. Protection as above for the following, going with the king :— John de Chanse, ' hauberger.' Richard de Wynkefeld. Roger Bennyng, ' trumpur.'  Blaise de Sene. William de Percy. Richard Counsedieu. William de London. William de Hemstede. Thomas atte Chirche. Thomas de Langeham. Richard atte Wose. Thomas Holbode of Wyndesore. John Rose of Grynewiche. Thomas Sprynget of Grynewiche. Martin Squirel of Berkyng. William de Brouneley. John le Moigne, ' barkere.' Henry de Cantebrigg. Henry de Acombe ' chaufcire.' Robert de Kendale. John de Ultyng. Geoffrey Foun. John de Broghton. Protection as above for following, going as above :— Almaric la Zouche. Robert de Bustlere John de Swyneford [going with the said Almaric.]
Richard de Ayremynne, parson of the church of Elveleye. Alan de Charleton. George de Thorp. Richard de Plaiz. Peter de Eketon. Anselm le Mareschal. John Curzon. Thomas de Usflet, parson of the church of Munestok. William de Longeleye. Master John de Hildesley, parson of the church of Thynden. Master Adam Mirimouth. John de Houton, parson of the church of Possewyk. Thomas de Clare, parson of the church of Alyngton. John de Westmancote, parson of the church of Hanyton. Master Henry de Cantuaria, clerk. Edmund le Spicer, going with the said Master Henry. William de Usflet, parson of the church of Newenton. Master Richard de Gloucestre, clerk. John de Gloucestre, going with the said Richard. Robert de Echyngham. Robert de Sapy. Robert de Ferariis. John de Grey of Rotherfeld. John de Scures. Thomas Coudray. William de Braydeshale. Master John de Shordich. John de Felstede, 'taverner,' going with the said Master John. Master John de Mildenhale. William de Bello Campo. Nicholas de Oxonia, going with the said John de Shordich.