RBLR 3204-em3
1332.7.19
427 2-19 July 1332 Hartlebury and Suckley. Process of the election of John Snow as abbot of St. Augustine's Bristol. Memorandum that on 2 July 1332, before the bishop sitting judicially (pro tribunali sedente) in the chapel of his manor of Hartlebury, in the presence of Ds. Adam de Aylyntone, M. H[enry] de Lond[on'], Ds. John de Hereford and Ds. John de Mere, rectors respectively of Rock (Aka), Hereford diocese, Withyham (Withihamme), Chichester diocese, Alvechurch (Alvenchurche) and Kington (Kyngton), Worcester diocese, and in that of John de Beautre, clerk, notary public by apostolic authority, M. Robert de Nettleton, clerk, proctor of the subprior and convent of the aforesaid monastery, appeared personally and presented as abbot elect Br. John called 'Snow', the prior with the request that his election be confirmed, The proctor produced the above-written decree of election and his own authority. When the decree had been read out, the bishop, following some discussion, determined that all who might wish to oppose the election or the person of the elect should be cited to appear in the parish church of Suckley (Sukkel') on the Thursday after the Translation of St. Thomas the martyr [i.e. 9 July] with due prorogation of days. The same day and place were assigned to the elect and to the proctor of the subprior and convent for their appearance before the bishop or his commissary. 

Acta in Suckley (Sukkelegh) parish church on the Thursday after St. Thomas [i.e. 9 July] before M. Henry de Lond[on'], rector of Withyham, special commissary of the bishop, in the matter of the election of Br. John, brought before the bishop at the instance of the subprior and chapter. The commissary was apprised by certificatory letters of the dean of the collegiate church of Westbury that all opponents of the election of the elect had been duly cited to appear at the day and place named. After all such had been publicly summoned, because no one appeared, the commissary precluded anyone from making objection in the future. The attestations of certain witnesses were then published and the commissary assigned to the subprior and chapter the following Friday [i.e. 17 July] before the bishop in the chapel of Hartlebury for further procedure. 

On that day the elect appeared before the bishop, who after discussion about the process of the election adjudged it lawful and canonical. Invoking [the grace] of the Holy Spirit, he confirmed it in the following form: We, Adam, by divine permission bishop of Worcester, having heard and understood the merits of the election of the religious Br. John Snow, prior of the monastery or church of the convent of St. Augustine, Bristol, in our Worcester diocese, because we find such election to be of a suitable person and in other ways rightly and canonically performed, by pontifical authority, having invoked the grace of the Holy Spirit, we confirm such election, committing to the elect and confirmed the administration of the spiritualities of the said monastery. 

Item, on the 19th day of the same month and year Bishop Adam blessed the said Br. John Snow, abbot elect and confirmed, with the customary solemnity, he being clothed in an alb of the bishop and his own amice and choir cope. The abbot made his profession to the bishop, reading it as follows: 

I, John called 'Snow', elected as abbot of the monastery of St. Augustine, Bristol, will from this hour, as before, be faithful to the cathedral church of Worcester and to Adam, by the grace of God bishop of Worcester, and his lawful successors, and will be obedient and intendant to their canonical mandates and those of their officers. Neither by counsel nor deed will I cause them injury (ut capiantur mala capcione), and what is shown to me in letters or by messenger I will not reveal to their disadvantage. I shall be active in the defence of the rights and customs of the Church of Worcester, saving my order. So help me God and these Holy Gospels. I, John, subscribe my name. 

After the celebration of Mass [the abbot] delivered the amice and cope to the succentor of Worcester, who was present and claimed them in the name of the Church of Worcester. The said precentor also claimed an alb, which he asserted to be due to him from the abbot. But the abbot replied that when it was clear to him that his was in fact the case he would be willing to surrender it. Present were Ds. Roger de Breynton, archdeacon of Gloucester, and Masters H[enry] de Lond[on'], [rector] of Withyham, Chichester diocese, Thomas de Wich and Robert de Nettleton, and the notary aforesaid [Beautre].
