Apr. 25.—Two    letters, under the seals of Master Ardicio and Friar 
                            John of  Darlington, chief collectors of the tenth, were handed 
                            to the Seneschal,  one of  which,  duly wttnessed, was   to be 
                            given to the collectors in the diocese of Worcester, to the effect 
                            that they  should  make  no  demand   on  the Bishop  for  his 
                            manor  of  Prestbury;   the second  to  the  collectors in the 
                            diocese of Hereford, that they should tax the See for the last 
                            two years of  Bishop  John. 

                         MEMORANDUM     DE  LITTERIS  PRO  DECIMA.—Item    memorandum 
                    quod   vij Kalendas   Maii,  apud  Totenhale,  tradite  fuerunt due 
                    littere, ambe  sigillis magistri Ardichionis! et fratris J [ohannis] de 
                    Derlintone,? principalium collectorum  decime,  consignate, magistro 
                    J.  de  Bradeham;   ita quod  unam   adjunctis testibus faceret tradi 
                    collectoribus dicte decime  in  Wygorniensi   diocesi deputatis, que 
                    illos inhibebat ne  decimam   deinceps exigerent ab  Episcopo  Here- 
                    fordensi pro manerio  suo  de Prestbury  in Episcopatu  Wygorniensi 
                    existente;  et quod   aliam  traderet collectoribus dyocesis   Here- 
                    fordensis  pro  ipso  Episcopatu  taxando  de  ultimo   biennio quo 
                     Episcopus  Johannes  fuit superstes. 
                    Chaplain, and aiterwards Bishop of Modena, and ofien mentioned ia Papal Reg | 
                        2—John of Darlington, a Friar Preacher, was made Archbishop of Dublin by Papal 

                            provision, the elect of the chapter  being  rejected, as holding more benefices than his dis- 
                            pensations warranted.   Papal  Reg. ii 457.

Memorandum    that  the sequestration on  the Church  of Ludlow   is 
                    released till August. 

                RELaXACIO  SEQUESTRI.—Memorandum    quod sequestrum ecclesie 
            de  Ludelawe  est  relaxatum usque  ad  Festum  Beatri Petri ad 
            vincula.