HCM 2819-em2
1352/3, January 19,
, 
 NOTARIAL INSTRUMENT drawn up end attested by John de : la More, clerk, of the diocese of ixeter, notary penits es the sentence civen by the Official of the ee of Hereford for the abbot and convent of the monastery of St. Peter's, Gloucester in the person of William Gosselyn, their proctor, against the abbot and convent of the monast of St. Mary of Lyre in the diocese of Evreux (Burolgen') in the person of Michael de Gaygnysco, their proc England, in the matter of an er fe of six marks whieh, by the confession of the said hael, oucht to be paid to the abbot and monastery of Gloucester,
 Witnesses: masister John de la More, notary vaoee dominus Thomas, 7 eoethel vicar of the church of Canon ryon (de Pyonia Canonicorum), William de Seynte Clere, and Robert Longe, cle
 The following are fully quoted:
 1, 1352, Wednesday next after the Feast of St. Martin,
 Bishop and Confessor |i.e, Nov. 14). Letter of proxy
 of Thomas, abbot of the meme svar of St, Peter of
 Gloucester, and the convent of the same place to frater
 John Coyder, their fellow monk ee
 eer Clerk, and William boas ar.
 2. 1349, any 10, Letter of per of elmus, abbot
 of the monastery of St. Mary of lyre in the diocese of
 Evreux, and the convent of the same place, to Seater
 Wichael de Geygniaco, to act for them in king Wales. ,  Ze A sooenieeee of the seals appended to the letter of = e said frater Michael, 4, Declaration of the abbot and convent of the monastery of St. Peter of Gloucester in the diocese of Yorcester against the abbot and convent of the monastery of ijre. 5. 1352/3, January 15. Tenor of the settlement reached Ciotteceersipistiit,“al"Zewiue"tishect Ge’ orpgerse ucester, pla rater 6 gnyaco
 Smaak oF ths aaunatcty of Heelies at lave tk te . diocese of Evreux ge geodon in — of the abbot and convent of the sa menenseer ot lyre, defendant, whereby the said Thomas, abbot o Gloucester, remitted to the said Michael the entire ay of one hundred and Feet Setitioes atk Meee Satan neering See the oeast
 our our e@ accru rom on of six marks, on condition that cereals apeeition payments be made until the arrears had been paid off, Witnesses; Enstor John Coyder, monk and sacrist of the soenereey ousester, Thomas Seinte Clere, William Seynte Clere and Robert Longe, clerk, i
 ietin. Seal,