RBLR 3203
1332.4.23
Feb. 19. Waltham. Grant to the king's merchants, James Nicholas, Bartholomew de Barde and the other merchants of the society of the Bardi of Florence; who have paid the following sums on the king's account, amounting in the whole to 4,566l. 15s. 3 ½d. namely: 557/. 13s. 2d. to J. bishop of Winchester on account of money due from the king for the stock cattle of the cathedral church which were seized into the late king's hands on a voidance of the see and not restored to the see in full, as appears in letters patent held by the bishop; 218l. 6s. 8d. in full satisfaction of 1,000 marks paid by the bishop to divers merchants on the king's account; 180l. 3s. 7½d. due to the bishop for his expenses in going on the king's service to the king of France; 2,641l. 8s. 6d. balance due to Anthony Pesaigne out of a larger sum assigned to him out of the issues of Cornwall by letters patent now surrendered to be cancelled; 322l. 10s. to the same for jewels bought for the king in France, as appears by bill signed by Robert de Tanton, king's clerk, the keeper of the Wardrobe; 300l. to W. bishop of Norwich, the treasurer, for the expenses of the household; 200l. a gift from the king to Dinus Forsetti one of their number; 66l. 13s. 4d. to the said keeper of the Wardrobe; 20l. a gift from the king to James de Parebaun, knight of Luke de Sauvey, by the hands of the bishop of Winchester; 60l. to William Trussel for his expenses in going on the king's service to the king of France and the court of Rome; that they shall receive the whole sum out of the issues of the coinage of Cornwall and Devon, that is to say, 500l. out of the issues to be received before Easter, and the whole of the issues from Midsummer until the debt is settled, and that should the king grant the county and coinage of Cornwall to John de Eltham, his brother, the latter shall not receive the issues until their debt is satisfied. Also for their greater security, the king's stamp shall be kept in a chest under the custody of the steward and sheriff and of the said merchants or their attorneys, and the steward and sheriff shall keep one key of the chest and the merchants or their attorneys another, so that no tin be stamped there without the presence of the steward and sheriff or such as supplies his place and of the merchants or their attorneys. By p.s. Mandate in pursuance to the treasurer and barons of the Exchequer and the king's chamberlains. Afterwards, because the said merchants have not had livery of the moneys and issues aforesaid by writ of the Exchequer as they assert, a mandate for payment is sent to the sheriff and steward of Cornwall and the keeper of the coinage in the county of Devon, by writ of the Chancery, as appears more fully in the said writ enrolled on the Close Roll.