The  assessment of the property  of the convent  of Aconbury,  which 
                                      was  not  entered in  the king's book. 

                                   Priorissa  de Acornebury   habet  in  manerio   de  Acornebury 
                               quatuor carucatas  terre precii cujuslibet xs.; item apud  Muraule’ 
                               tres selliones terre precii viijs.;  item  apud   Kingestone   duas 
                               carucatas terre precii car. xs.; item apud  Rovelestone‘ unam   car. 
                               terre precii j marc.; item  infra  libertatem de  Kylpec  duodecim 
                               acras prati  precii acre  xiijd.;  tria molendina   aquatica  precii 
                               cnjuslibet xs.; item apud  Caldecote  de redditu  assiso xxs.; item 
                               in territorio de Colintone apud Burley de  redditu assiso Cs.; item 
                               in villa de  Lodelawe  de  redditu cum   molendino  aquatico  xiijli. 
                               vis. viijd.; de silva cedua xxs.; de molendino aquatico de Hereford 
                               xviijs.; item  de  redditu annuo   apud  Fowechirche   et  Hyntone 
                               Xxxyjs.; item  apud  Boneshulle  unam   virgatam  terre per  annum 
                               xs; item  apud  Malmeshulle   Lacy  de  annuo  redditu iiij li,; item 
                               in civitate Hereford de redditu  assiso xlvjs.; de  placitis et per- 
                               quisitis xijd.; item  apud  Straddele in Blakemonstone    de annuo 

                                  Fol. 90b. 

                                            1—The   details of the assessment  extend  from  fol. 86 to fol. 100b, as drawn up in 
                                        accordance with the instructions of pope Nicholas IV.  The return, which was  finished in 
                                        1291, is known  as the Taxatio  Nicholai, and  was  printed in 1802 by command   of king 
                                        George III.  The copy  in the bishop's register follows closely the official record, but, as 
                                        might be expected, the local names are much   more  accurately given than in the printed 
                                        form of the taxatio, where  some  of them  are hard to recognise. For some  examples  of 
                                        this see the introduction. 
                                            2—The  second paragraph  is entered by another hand and is not part of the faxatio. 
                                            3-Probably  Myryvale,  aft. Merryhill.                        4—Rolston.

Idem 

                     redditu  xxxviijs. 
                     non   taxatur in registro regis. 

                                     Summa   xxxixli. xvid.;  decima lxxviij.