RBLR 0501
1305 [*]
No. 23. [circa 1300]. 1. William de Fostone, chaplain; 2. Roger de Broyntone, clerk. GRANT of one curtilage, one dovecot, and thirty-one acres of arable land in Chirchebroynton', together with two and a quarter acres of meadow in Prestheye, of which thirteen acres lie in the field of Wydedene between the land of the chaplain of the altar of St. Mary who was for the time in the church of Hereford, and the land of John de la Berne and extending from the highway of Wydedene as far as the land of the dean and chapter of Hereford, six acres lie in the same field between the land of the lord bishop of Hereford and the land of the said John de la Berne and extending from the highway called herestreteswey as far as the highway of Wydeden', one acre and a half lie in Posemoresfurlong' between the land of the said dean and chapter and the land of the sai d chaplain of the altar mentioned and extending from the land of the said John de la Berne as far as Wlmaresgreve (usque ad hauciam que vocatur W.), one acre lies between the lands of the said dean and chapter and extends from their lands as far as the land formerly of Adam de la Pounde, one acre lies in Tounfeld between the land of the said dean and chapter and the land of John Wyty and extends as far as the haucia of John le Schipward, one acre lies between the land of ths said dean and chapter and the land formerly of Emma le Norreys and extending as far as the town of Broyntone, one half acre lies between the land of the said dean and chapter and ths land of the said chaplain and extends as far as Brugge Wallesiche, one acre and a half l ie in Marschfeld between ths land of ths said dean and chapter and ths lend of ths said chaplain, one half acre lies between the land of Hugh le Schipward and the land of the said chaplain, one acre lies in foseaoresfurlonge between the land of the said John de la Berne and the way called grenewey and extends from the land of the said John as far as Wlmaresgreve, and two acres lie in chirchecroft between the lands of the said chaplain of the altar mentioned and extending towards la goldhord, and two acres and a quarter of meadow lying in Prestheye near the meadow of the said Roger de Broynton' and extending from the pasture of the lord bishop of Hereford near the bridge of Lugge ss far as the water of Lugge. Witnesses: John de Barewe, then seneschal of the said dean and chapter, John de la Felde, John de Seuenoke, Hugh Iues, Hugh de Tybrihton', Hugh le Schipward, Adam Wyty, John de Ia Berne, William Seym. Latin. Seal. Slightly damaged.