HCM 1414
1282, August 31.
, 
 NOTARIAL INSTRUMENT drawn up and attested by Peter Bartholomei de Guarcino, notary 7s of the Holy Roman Church, recording certificates receipt given by legatees under the will of Thomas de — ey bishop of Hereford, after the distribution the legacies. The receipts given are as follows:= ad Adam de Fileby, archdeacon of Salop in the chure Hereford, for a silver casket for oblations and three fleur-de-lis bench-covers; a= Robert de Redeswelle for ten marks, at thirteen sh s% and nag emg to the mark, a Bible and a mule; SERA Zone Se ciate tee Feeky meee a mule, and one whole piece of dark blue cloth; agpinus John de Kemeseye for nt ee a winter robe Ww. a cape of miniver, and one black cloak with two hoods; aoe, on cael Bradeham' for thirty marks; Hee de by priest, for twenty marks, one Bs ce white cloth of five and’a half ells, a horse called Assh, and one furred cloak with a hood; dondnus Nicholas de Oxon! priest, for fifteen marks, one robe of white cloth together with a hood, and one cloak of blue cloth with a hood; negister Adan de Fileby on behalf of Nicholas de Hiodenet Tor Te Saree Se Sree Feee oS noe John de Clara on alf of Richard, papal deacon, aaett the sane doainus John on behalf of Willian de Cantilupo, a stude aris (7) See EE, for thirty marks; the same Sopiaas Jona ‘or snare Serereee Soe. tae on to the poor; the seme ees John for fifty marks for the expenses of the late
 s household usoque ad partes anclican: the same John pro ecclesia tlorentin a hundred shillings Genitive ral); ohn - Falen’s see een 3 dohn the marshal for twenty marks one white horse; the same John the marshal on behalf of Piccardus for three marks; John de Basevylla for twenty five marks and a horse named But'leye; Rubinettus the butler for ee marks and a robe trimmed with fur for the use of wife; Richard the tailor for five marks and a horse which belonged to Rubinettus; Robert the farrier for seven snd a half marks; Peter Nunnus for seven pe Mgt marl ght | Robert wee twenty marks and the late bishop's together with its ee or al Willian the sae for five marks; Thomas, ther of Willian, for five marks; Robert Harlond' for ten a Thomas the baker for three marks; Gille de Coquina for ee marks; Walter the page for one mark. ". 
 All these sepenses were distributed in accordance with the will of Thomas de Cantilupo, as contained in a public instru- ment drawn up by the same scribe and bearing the late bishop's séal, The present document was drawn up in Palatio Mon’ sansie Crucis at Orvieto.
 Witnesses: Thomas de Redeswelle, Hugh de Kameseya, William de Kyggeho, Welter de bromhart.
 Latin."