HCM 3014
1322, April 7.
. 
 NOTARIAL INSTRUMENT drawn up and attested by Michael Ludowici de Sumeruelt', clerk man -fineeais, oot ete public, recording that on the above date, Richard de Sydenhsle, proctor of the bishop of Hereford, and Richard Herul, proctor of the dean and chapter of Hereford, presented themselves at the entrance to the abode of Petrus, cardinal priest of the title of St. ",  Stephan in Celiomonte and vicechancellor of the holy Roman church, and requested of Galiardus de Chueselho(?), servant of the said vicechancellor and guardian of the gate, that they should be allowed to enter to the presence of the said viceehencellor to defend the bishop and dean and chapter of Hereford against dominus John de Ros, papel chaplain and auditer, concerning certain letters apostolic which the seid dominus John was seeking to obtain against the said bishop and dean ond chapter. The said Galiardus refused them entry, end the said proctors gave the parchment document which they carried to agistar Petrus de Fas then present, vhose office it was to receive documents of that kind. The document is then quoted in full as followss- aus John de Ros, canon of Hereford and pare ehaplain,
 med the fruits of his benefice in the chureh of Hereford as though he were personally resident, end had procured papal graces and various processes and ecclesiastical censures in this connection against the dean and chapter of Hereford. The said dean and chapter appealed against this to the apostolic sea, and the appeel was assigned to be heard by dodnus Armaldus Searboti, chaplain of the apostolic see, re whom libels were given by the dean and chapter concerning the processes and censures and their nullity. These causes were still undecided before the said auditor. At the request of the bishop of Hereford, a commission was given to Peter, abbot of the monastery of St. Seturninus, : » to ascertain the claims of thév said John de Res.” e bishop of Hereford isid some information before the said sesinus Peter in the presence of the said John. After this the said John renounced the ee letters, graces, processes ete. which he had obtained; but 9 little Later attempted anew to obtain further apostolic letters, thus prejudicing the commission given to the said ~ aus Peter. Wherefore the said proctors pleaded ths e@ seid apostolic letters ought not to be granted. Given at Avignon. :
 Witnesses: Sucseter Richard de Salbury, rector of the ehureh of Turwaya @ diocese of Lincoln, snd Richard de Turwaya, clerk of the diocese of Lincola.
 Latin.