HCM 1767-em2
1331/2, January 27.
. 
 WRIT of Edward III directed to the sheriff of the county of Hereford, The writ recites that at an assize-court held at Hereford on Saturday next before the Feast of St. George the martyr in the year 1330, damages of one hundred pounds were awarded to Koger, son of Roger Ragoun and Alice his wife, against John de Langeton', Joanna his wife, and isabella his daughter, Robert de Shengelton', Hemo Turbelvill', Richard Scurlagge, William Helpeston', William le Hunte, Hugh Launtel', John ep Waltier, David ap Waltier, Llewelyn ap Yevan, Davia ap Yevan, Robert Blakeneye, Walter Smyth, chaplain, Walter Joye, chaplain, David Scurlagg', John bunwrenche, Walter Beneyt, Thomas Heyne, Richard Kyst (or Kyft), John Carnwarch'len, and Thomas his son, Bartholomew le Lougharne, and John his son, William Kygour, Robert Kygour, fiichard le Lange, Thomas Perkyn, John Dounharri, Daukynn' Yewyn, John le Sumnor Davia Thleget, William Voghen 2 oe ap Howel, John le Noreys, and William his brother, Morgen Thloyd, Thomas ap Aram\’), Thomas de Avene, John de Avne(?) Liewelyn de Hunteley, John ep tye ox henry de wolles, bevia ap Eneas, Griffin Keithlyn, mA S 8p Kynon, John Kenewrek', wiliitom Theu, Maurice Quar de Kelvay, snd John Kyst’ (or Kyft'), by reason of their disseisin of the ssid Hoger and alice in respect of certain tenements in Swyneseye, Oystremouth', Penuedou, and Lougharne in Gower in Walese Later the said Roger and Alice pointed out thet ninety-one pounds six shillings and eightpence remained to be paid. whereupon the king ordered the sheriff of Herefordshire to cite the said John de Lengeton' and the others to appear before the king's court on the fifteenth day after the Feast of St. Martin in the same year to give reason why the ssid sum should not be levied on their lends and chattels in the bailiwick of Hereford. But the said John de Langeton'SS Se ne eC ea "end the others did not sppear. Whereupon the court gave execution in favour of the ssid Roger and Alice eoncerning the ssid domages. But the said Roger, son of Roger Regoun, died before execution could be carried out, and Alice his wife married Thomas de Sheynton'. The said Thomas ond Alice then petitioned that a suitable renedy be provided for then, The king therefore commands his sheriff of Herefordshire to cite the said John de Lengeton' and all the others to appear before the king's Court three weeks efter Easter=-dsy to show reason why the séid sum should not be levied from the lands ond chattels of the said John de Langeton' and all the others within the bailiwick of Hereford, and to receive the findings of the court. Witness: G. ce Serop at Westminster.
 The ENDORSEMENT, deted three weeks after Easter in the year 1332 is to the effect that, on that day, the sheriff returned that the seid John de Langeton’ and all the others were possessed of no lands or tenements within his bailiwick whereon they could be summoned. Execution was then renewed to the said Thomas and Alice.
 The last sentence of the original writ has been crossed out, and further orders have been interlined above, recording the sbove endorsement, and ordering the sheriff to raise vticrd taciss) the outstanding damages on the properties of the said John de Langeton' snd all the others within his bailiwick, and to bring the said moneys before the king's Court in lhe Octaves of the Feast of St. Michael tc be delivered to the said Thomas and Alice. This addition, which is deted 9 July 1332 at Westminster is witnessed by R, de wylughby.
 Latin. Used as draft."