HCM 2997
1324, July 17.
. 
 NOFaBLAL INSTRUMENT drawn up and attested by an unnamed notary public, recording that ister Thomas de Boleye, rector of the church of Bstencee In the diocese of Hereford, ~~ of the dean and chapter of Hereford, a wh in the monastery of Dora in the same diocese
 ‘ore the abbot of the said monestery, judge together with the abbot of “yzemore and the prior of Wormesleye in the said diocese, in the dispute between the dean and chapter of Hereford on the one side and ister John de ROS, Ganon of the church of Hereford and fete? erchdeacon of aa: the other side, and a to him two apostolic letters. Having received the same, the said,  abbot demanded that the said Be John de Ros be called to —— in the greater churc Hereford to reply to the dean and ere of Hereford ani to receive justice on the next legal day after the Feast of St. James the Apostle, On the same day, the said proctor exhibited the apostolic letters to the prior of Wormeslaye, who, after receiving tho letters, ardered that, the sala ae John called to appear on the day and in the € stated above. On the nineteenth day of the same month, the said proctor appeared in the monastery of = and presented the said apostolic letters to the prior, The latter, after receiving the said letters ordered the said mazister John to be cited to appear Ln the said place and at the Said time, on the 2 day, Thureay next after the Feast of St. James eee before the abbot of Dora ani the oe of Wormesleye, the abbot of Wygemore excusing himself, there a rp er Thomas de Boleye, proctor of the s dean and ¢ er, who read the said apostolic letters and a certif- icate signed by the subdean of Hereford, The sald ister John snyesets through magister William de Kos archdeacon of Salop, his proctor. said aagister Thomas on behalf of the sala dean and chapter, read ac article of restitution, and gave a copy of it to the precees of the said paptster John. he said abbot on & own behalf and that o colleagues, with the consent of both parties, pronounced concerning the Sapert sas of the article (de articulo intoploquende). immediately afterwards the proc e an and ee ‘ produced a certain libel and handed a copy of it to the f proctor of the said macister John. oe the party of the said ister John said that the facts given in the said libel were not true, and that the requests therein made should not be granted, Then the at abbot assigned Tuesday next following for thetparty of the dean and — to produce in court and to present articles in the said cause Cece tee and for both parties te receive justice, Latin, Draft. 