HCM 1876
349, wednesday, the Feast of the Annunciation of the blessed Mary LMareh 25]. 
1. Abbot and convent of Sst. :eter's, Gloucester; 2. William, son of John Cheverel. GRANT of a corrody as follows:=- As long as he is able te serve the grantors in their abbey, he and his servant shell have food and drink in the hali (aula) of the abbey of the same nature as that served to one of the squires of the abbot and his servant; he shall also receive one robe annually for the Pesast of the Nativity of our Lord of the suit eae of the saic squires with a lining of fur, and thirty shillings smnually for footwear and other necessaries. He shall also receive a suitable stall for his horse ag well as hay in the cellarer's stable, and every night for its provender a quarter of a bushel of oats. On the death of his father, John Cheverel, he sitll also receive the chamter in which the tithes were collected in olden times. When the ssid William is oppressed with sickness and old age, so that he con no longer serve the seid abbot and convent, he shall receive daily for himself and his servant from their store-house one monk's loaf with another suall loaf of the same dough and two small wheaten loaves, with a gallon and a half of good conventual sle, and from the cookhouse the fare served to a nonk in the misericord on meat-days, and in the refectory on fish-dayse He shall also receive amnuelly for the feast of All Saints six pounds of candles SE EC ey and snnually for the Feast of the Na ty of our Lord hig robe lined with fur as ’ aforesaid and ten shillings for his footwear, es well as the chamber deseribed above. Yor this grant, the seid William binds himself to serve the abbot and convent faithfully in his office of clerk of the bailiffs and reeves of their manors, and to hand over to the receivers of the said abbot and convent on the Feast of the Purifie- ation of the Blessed “sry all that he receives annually in excess of thirty shillings from the said bailiffs and reeves. Given in the chapter-house at Gloucester. Latin. gal, |954."