HCM 3002
11323, 13 Kal. December, i.e. November 19.
. 
 MEMORANDUM OF AGREEMENT in the dispute between puthater John de Ros, canon of the church of Hereford, of the one | part, and the dean and chapter of Hereford of the other part, concerning certain fruits, rents, and profits which the said magistor John claimed to be owing to him and of which the ssid dean and chapter had deprived him; also concerning certain processes and eeclesissticsal censures made oo’ the said dean ond chapter et the instance of the said John. ‘There is also a dispute between the said John and Basksber Adem Murymouth', canon of Hereford snd proctor of the said dean and chapter. An agreement has been reached by the mediation of Suilater Henry de Schorne, canon of Hereford. The said dean a chapter will request a commission in the form of an apostolic letter to be sent to the prior of Wormesleye or to the abhot of Dore or the abbot of Wygemor' or to others at the wish of the seid dean and chapter, the said commissioner(s) to inquire into the rights end privileges of both parties to the dispute, and to publish a sentence of revocation or relaxation concerning processes and censurese Also the said megister John will renounce all privileges snd indulgences obtained in this connection from the apostolic see, snd all processes made in this connection, by resgon of which privileges end processes he elsimed certain fruits, rents, end profits, end will be content with those which are due to canons absent and resident according to the customs of the church of Hereford. In recompense of the losses suffered by the ssid aelater John a tee of the aforesaid sand especially by his diligent labour in ; the Roman Court in the affeir of the canonisstion of Thomas, late bishop of Hereford, the said dean end chapter and their proctor bind themselves that the ssid Buckoter John shell have little commons of twenty-five marks for the previous five yerrs, end shall also receive little commons ee in future elthough the little commons of the other canons by common ordinance of the chapter have been assigned to the fabric of the chureh of Hereford. The™ dean end chapter grant further that the said caniater John shall have as recompense from the chapter tressury hundred marks to be peid to him in the following manner;-
"fifty marks immediately in the Roman court before the said apostolic commission is transmitted to the parties, twenty- five marks: as little commons for five years as aforesaid to be paid to his proctor in the greater church of Hereford on the morrow of the feast of Holy Trinity next following, fifty marks at the ssid time and plece in the year 1325, fifty marks et the said time end place in the year 1326, fifty marks at the sid time end plece in the year 1327, fifty marks at the ssxid time end place in the yesr iis and the last fifty marks at the said time and place in the yeer 1329. The proctor of the ssid chapter binds the chapter in the payment of the seid sums at the ssid terms. Moreover, since a pensl obligatory letter in the name-of the seid deen ond chonter is said to heve been extorted by force by certein persons from Ete William de Ros, kinsman of the ssid magister Jo’ @ seid acéiatoe Adam proctor of the ssid dean and chapter, promises Look into this a if the said letter is found, it will be restored to the ssid Sait william or destroyed in his presences if the seid letter is not found, the dean and ehapter bind themselves to preserve the said te William unharmed if he suffers any loss on account it.
 Latin. LSee We.Capes, Charters and jecords of Hereford Cathedral PPol199%-202)."