RBLR 3004-em
1330.7.1
[No. 2089. 1330, July 1. INSPEXIMUS AND CONFIRMATION by Stephen de Ledebury, dean of the church of St. Ethelbert of Hereford, and the chapter of the same of the following charters:] (2) Grant from Walter de la Bache, by the licences specified in (1)[HCM 2089a], to domini John de Aka and John called Peer de Bellymare, priests, who shall celebrate divine service as described in (1), of two messuages, etc., in Kentyssheborcote and Nethereschelwyk' held of the bishop in capite and one messuage in the city of Hereford situated in vico castri between the tenement of the dean and chapter and the tenement of Richard Herui and extending from the highway as far as the tenement formerly of Phillip le Walsche, which messuage is held in capite of the dean and chapter; the chaplains to do suit of court and render all services pertaining to the properties to the bishop and the dean and chapter. Grantor makes the folloing ordinations: that the chaplains and their successors shall be presented by him to the dean and chapter whilst he is alive and then admitted to the chantries by the dean and chapter; after his death the dean and chapter shall have the right to fill any vacancy in the chantries; on admission the chaplains shall take oath to celebrate the services in person as far as possible and when they are prevented from doing so they shall provide suitable chaplains to perform the chantry services aforesaid; the chaplains shall be present in person daily at matins and at all other canonical hours with the other chaplains of the said chapel; however, the grantor does not intend to burden them to such extent that they cannot arrange and prepare their usual business when necessary for the purpose of tilling and harvesting; they shall also be visited and corrected by the dean and chapter as the other chaplains of the said chapel; they and their successors shall celebrate divine services daily for the grantor whilst he is alive and after his death they shall do so for the dead, viz., for his soul specially and by name, and for the souls of his parents and benefactors, the aforesaid bishop and his parents and ancestors, and the dean and chapter and all the faithful dead, except on such days as the mass of the Virgin Mary is said and Sundays and feast days when a collect shall be specially said for him. Witnesses: magistri Stephen de Ledebury, dean, Richard de Hauerynge, precentor, Thomas de Chaundos, archdeacon, Thomas de Horleton, chancellor, Henry de Shorne, Richard de Vernoun', Walter Karles, John de la Felde, William de Wyk', penitentiary, Adam Carbonel, Roger de Breynton', William de Fowehope, and John de Ew, canons, Thomas de Gayton knight, Thomas de Barre, and Robert de Hompton'. Thomas Tope, and Walter de Hompton', bailiffs of the king in Hereford, Richard de Maurdyn, John de Bradefelde, William le Brut, William le Stede, John le Clerk' de Holemare, Henry de Underwode. Dated at Hereford, 6 June 1330. 

Witnesses to the confirmations Stephen de Ledebury, dean, Richard the precentor, Thomas the archdeacon, Thomas the chancellor, Henry de Shorne, Richard de Vernoun', John de la Felde, Adam Cerbonel, William the penitentiary, Walter Karles, Roger de Breynton', William de Fowehope, and John de Ew, canons, Robert de Hompton', Thomas Tope and Walter de Hompton', bailiffs of the king in Hereford, Richard Monyword, William de Clehungre, Thomas Hamund, and Simon le Bruyn, citizens of Hereford. Dated at Hereford in the chapter. Latin. Imperfect seal.