HCM 3003
1324, Saturday, August 25.
. 
 DEFINITIVE SENTENCE together with a recital of previous developments in the ae between Saekor John de Ros, canon of Hereford, and the dean and chapter of the eathedrel church of Hereford. at Thomas de Boleye proctor of the dean and chapter of Hlereford, had presented certain apostolic letters to the abbots of bora end Wygemore and tothe prior of Wormesleye. The tenor of the said apostolic letters was as follows:=- Pope Clement vy ioe to honour Arneld, cardinal priest of St. Prisea's, authorised all clerics who served in the household of the said Arnald to continue to receive the profits and fruits of their ecclesiastical benefices as though they were resident in the same. The ssid cardinal, wishing that Bagigter John de os should benefit from this indulgence, col ed to magister Buxolus de Parma, canon of Tournai, the task of ensuring that the fruits, rents, and profits of the prebend of the said ayciater John in the church of Hereford should be paid to + W the exception of the daily distributions, as long as he remsined in the service of the said cardinal. Though the said pois John had received the issues of his oe as directed above from the date of the indult, the said Sister Buxolus had exceeded his authority and ordered the dean and chapter of Hereford to pay to the said soter John those issues called grest commons as well, ch were paid only to canons resident in the said church. A sentence of excommunication and interdict was threatened against them if they did not comply. Whereupon the said dean and chapter appealed to the apostolic see. The Pope (John XXII) directed the sbbots of Dora and Wygemore and the prior of Wormesleye to inquire into the dispute and dispense justice. The papal mandate was given at Avignon 5 Ides May, 1324. ‘The said proctor of the dean and chapter then requested the commissaries to proceed in accordance with the apostolic letters. The commissaries commanded the said et John to appear before then. (For the next developments, see 2997	dated 17 July 1324.	",  The proctor of the dean and chapter then brought forward ten witnesses to prove his get abe pamag and a 4 was appointed for exhibiting and bringing forward sll matters concerning the dispute. On which day, the party of the dean and chapter exhibited four instruments, and the eee. of the said att John did not speak against then, nm the judges assigned e suitable term to make their sentence know. ke Walter de Maddeleye represented the dean and chapter, and magister Geoffrey de Reygate, substitute of Bunbiior Williem de Ros represented gagister John de Rose judges then deliver their de ve sentence as followss- ‘The said dean and chapter and their proctor have proved their intention in their libel. The seid magister Buxolus de Parma has proceeded wrongly, and the appeal of the dean and chapter is justified. The sentences of excommunication end suspension brought against the dean and chapter are of no effect. The grest commons ere the @aily distributions which are not owing to the said Soaketor John de Ros. ‘This sentence was promulgated in
 * eee ehureh of Hereford.
 tnesses: gagdsird Adem Murymouth', canon of Exeter,
 Thomas de Orleton', canon in the collegiate church of Westbur’ in the diocese of worcester, William de Fowehop', commissary of Adam, bishop of Hereford, Hugh de Thornhagh' , and John de Radenhale, notaries public, sgomini John celled Helle and Walter de Tyberton', chaplains, vieers in the said church,
 Latin. Jorn in one fold, [See Wel’.Capes, Spartgre-spg Records of Haramara fathedral PP. 203-073 see also lo. » dated the same day]."