HCM 2100
1319, April 13.
, 
 INSPEXIMUS and confirmation by John, dean, and the chepter of the cathedral church of Hereford of the following charter:
 1, James de Henlee, canon in the church of St.
 Ethelbert of Hereford;
 2. 2optous Richard called de Credelee, chaplain and Vv f£ the said cathedral church, sand his successors celebrating divine service Seres tee the soul of the grantor and the soulof father and mother, and Thomas le Breton, formerly canon of Hereford, and all the grantor's parents and benefactors and all the faithful dead, at the altar of St. Anne, mother of Mary,
 GRANT y royal licence (see uv ’ plea pe105) of two messuages, Agee ot acres = , ee acres end one rood of meadow, and an annual
 rent of sixteen pence in Hereford Ouerbroynton’ and Walneye, oa’ one burgage in the city of Hereford in the street called Bihyndethewalle between the houses of SEATS nes ot anstmug’riyed the. chepisiny vicar af uses flyas the ip ar
 the said church, one messuage and all the land in . Ouerbroynton' in the fee of the dean and chapter of Hereford which the said Thomas le Breton formerly held and which lend formerly belonged to Richard son of — de la Gldehulle, the land which John Arewy formerly a in — of the fee of the dean and chapter, one acre
 . of 1 in the same vill which Gilbert Withy formerly held, two acres of land which Isabel daughter of John called le Sehipward formerly held, an annual rent of fourteen pene laaeine out of the land of John, son and heir of Gilbert og $ an annual rent of two _— being one penny from the land held by William de Orleton' in the field called Smalthornesfeld and one penny from the land held by John de Penebrugge, a meadow ..... in Broynton', two acres and one £eithere(!) of meadow which lie near Lugge in the common mé belonging to the inhabitants the vill of Broynton', he grantor ordains that the said chaplain and his successors shall be presented by him to the dean and chapter and admitted by them to the chantry during his lifetime and thereafter the dean and chapter shall appoint te vacancies in the seer the chaplains on ars admitted to the chantry shall take oath to serve t chantry in person as far as humanly possible ani during the",  time may be prevented from doing so they shall cause the eeetar to be served by suitable chaplains, and the chaplains apse to the chantry shall be present at day and wigk hours in the choir of the said church,
 en er nee John ae rete Richard de Kynerdeslee, er Roger de Power, Richard Monyword de la Hay, Dopp of the city, Thomas “eee Roger called le Taylor, Dated at Hereford Saturday the viel of aia Edward II, Dated in the chapter of Hereford.
 Zorn in the fold."