HCM 3001
1317/8, February 12.
NOTARIAL INSTRUMENT drawn up and attested by Hugh de Thornhagh', clerk of the diocese of York, notary public, recording that magister Thomas de Boleye, proctor of the dean and chapter of the cathedral church of Hereford, notified magister William de Ros, proctor of magister John de Ros, canon of the said cathedral church, of an appeal which had been placed in the chapter-house of the said church on the eighth day of the same month, and handed to the said magister William a copy of the said appeal. This appeal quoted in full. It recites that it is laid down in the customs and statutes of the cathedral church of Hereford that the great commons, consisting of hay, tithes, pence, rents, and other necessities of victuals, are owing to those canons who are personally resident in the said church or who are absent by licence of the chapter furthering the interests of the said church. A certain Petrus Guillelmi, canon of Vaison, papal chaplain and auditor, has stated that as long as the said magister John is absent from Hereford cathedral in the service of the Pope, he is entitled to the daily distributions of commons in Hereford as though he were present. The dean and chapter appealed against this, and their appeal was not unknown to magister William de Ros, proctor of the said magister John, nor to maigster Stephen Norman, subexecutor of the said magister Petrus Guillelmi. The latter them admonished the said dean and chapter to pay to the said magister John the daily distributions in their cathedral as long as he is in the service of the Pope. A threat of suspension and major excommunication is made if the dean and chapter refuse to obey the above instructions. The dean and chapter, feeling that they are hereby unjustly oppressed, appeal to the apostolic see and for the protection of the court of Canterbury. Dominus Thomas de Penbrugge, treasurer, dominus John Helle, vicar in the church of Hereford, dominus Peter de Wilton’, chaplain, and Gilbert de Bolyngehope are witnesses to the appeal of the dean and chapter. Later in the same day, the dean and chapter of Hereford, wishing to take all precautions, through their proctor magister Thomas de Boleye, read the said appeal publicly in the solemn procession of the same church and in the presence of magister William de Ros, proctor of the said magister John. Latin.